# GST-based gate execution quality metrics

In this directory we have the code to obtain gate set tomography (GST) based gate execution quality metrics.

### Overview

This directory contains the code required to run GST and then obtain the following gate execution quality metrics:

- M3.1. Gate set tomography based process fidelity
- M3.2. Diamond norm of a quantum gate
- M3.7. State preparation and measurement fidelity

The software used to run GST is PyGSTi. In this directory, we show how a user can run GST using PyGSTi. 

The software works as follows:

1. The GST experiment must be generated. This is where the user specifies the number of qubits, the germ lengths, and other parameters.
2. The user then runs the circuits generated in step 1 and then fill a `dataset.txt` file with the results for each circuit.
3. The user then needs to run the GST optimization process. This can be a very time consuming step. As a result, we have provided two scripts. There is a 
`run_gst_fit.py`, and a `run_gst_fit_mpi.py`. They both achieve the same result, only the mpi file uses MPI to speed up the calculations. If you have MPI available on your computer, it is stronglt suggested to use this.
4. Finally with the GST results, one can calculate the metrics listed above.

### Core dependencies

If one wants to run `run_gst_fit_mpi.py`, you must install mpi4py after confirming you have MPI available on your system. This can be achieved by running `pip install mpi4py` in your python environment.

One can install the gst requirements using the following files:
- `mpi_requirements.txt` (optional depending on MPI)
- `pygst_requirements.txt`


### Parameters

To run the GST protocol, you will need to first run the `run_gst_circuits.py` file, then run the `run_gst_fit.py` or `run_gst_fit_mpi.py` file depending on if you have MPI available. This is to separate the execution of circuits from the more time-consuming post-processing. Finally, you will need to run the `gst_based_gate_execution_quality_metrics.ipynb` notebook to calculate the metrics based on the post-processing results.

There are parameters that can be adjusted, such as:

- `n_qubits` - the number of qubits to run GST on. Choose from 1 or 2

- `maxLengths` - the list of legths of the circuits to generate

- `shots` - the number of shots

- `device_name` - the name of the (AWS) device to use. Default to "noisy_sim" for noisy simulations

- `noise_model` - an optional `qiskit_aer.noise.NoiseModel` to use for noisy simulations

- `comm` - this parameter is in `run_gst_fit_mpi.py`. It is an optional parameter for choosing whether you would like to use MPI to speed up the post-processing step

- `gst_path` - this parameter is in `run_gst_fit.py`, `run_gst_fit_mpi.py` and `gst_based_gate_execution_quality_metrics.ipynb`. It is the path to the folder generated by `run_gst_circuits.py`

### Usage

As the script is set up now, if the required dependencies are installed, you may run the RB script simply by calling

`python3 run_gst_circuits.py`

followed by

`python3 run_gst_fit.py` or  ` mpiexec -n <n> python3 run_gst_fit.py`

if you are using MPI, where `<n>` is the number of processes you would like to use.

This will create the experiments for the gate set tomography (GST) protocol and run the circuits, and then run the GST algorithm.

Finally, you may run the `gst_based_gate_execution_quality_metrics.ipynb` notebook to calculate the relevant metrics from the results of GST.

The notebook will output the fidelities as below:

```
Gate execution quality metrics:
Process Fidelity Gate:('Gxpi2', 1) =  0.9871354892375207
Diamond Norm of Gate:('Gxpi2', 1) =  0.061272305784890325 

Process Fidelity Gate:('Gypi2', 1) =  0.9851290862482724
Diamond Norm of Gate:('Gypi2', 1) =  0.05990017716112636 

Process Fidelity Gate:('Gxpi2', 0) =  0.9957971640490499
Diamond Norm of Gate:('Gxpi2', 0) =  0.0111499137827521 

Process Fidelity Gate:('Gypi2', 0) =  0.9941629817134692
Diamond Norm of Gate:('Gypi2', 0) =  0.017088151372611677 

Process Fidelity Gate:('Gcnot', 0, 1) =  0.8858400478215285
Diamond Norm of Gate:('Gcnot', 0, 1) =  0.2063626977166566 


State preparation and meausrement fidelity:
Fidelity of initial density matrix =  0.8790047916021153
Measurement Fidelity  =  0.8750511362530655
```